Step 1 – IP addressing of MPLS Core and OSPF
First bring 3 routers into your topology R1, R2, R3 position them as below. We are going to 
address the routers and configure ospf to ensure loopback to loopback connectivity between R1 
and R3
You should now have full ip connectivity between R1, R2, R3 to verify this we need to see if we 
can ping between the loopbacks of R1 and R3
Step 2 – Configure LDP on all the interfaces in the MPLS Core
In order to run MPLS you need to enable it, there are two ways to do this.
At each interface enter the mpls ip command
Under the ospf process use the mpls ldp autoconfig command
You should see log messages coming up showing the LDP neighbors are up.
To verify the mpls interfaces the command is very simple – sh mpls interface
This is done on R2 and you can see that both interfaces are running mpls and using LDP
You can also verify the LDP neighbors with the sh mpls ldp neighbors command.
One more verification to confirm LDP is running ok is to do a trace between R1 and R3 and 
verify if you get MPLS Labels show up in the trace.
Step 3 – MPLS BGP Configuration between R1 and R3
We need to establish a Multi Protocol BGP session between R1 and R3 this is done by 
configuring the vpnv4 address family as below
To verify the BGP session between R1 and R3 issue the command sh bgp vpnv4 unicast all 
summary
Step 4 – Add two more routers, create VRFs
We will add two more routers into the topology so it now looks like the final topology
If you issue the command sh ip route this shows the routes in the global table and you will 
notice that you do not see 192.168.1.0/24
We just need to enable OSPF on this interface and get the loopback address for R4 in the VRF 
RED routing table before proceeding.
If we now check the routes in the VRF RED routing table you should see 4.4.4.4 in there as well.
We now need to repeat this process for R3 & R6 Router 6 will peer OSPF using process number 
2 to a VRF configured on R3. It will use the local site addressing to 192.168.2.0/24
We also need to configure a VRF onto R3 as well.
Check the router in vrf RED
Ok so we have come a long way now let’s review the current situation. We now have this setup
As expected we have the local interface and the loopback address. When we are done we want 
to see 6.6.6.6 in there so we can ping across the MPLS Check the routes on R1
Which it is! 6.6.6.6 is now in the BGP table in VRF RED on R3 with a next hop of 192.168.2.6 (R6) 
and also 4.4.4 is in there as well with a next hop of 1.1.1.1 (which is the loopback of R1 –
showing that it is going over the MPLS and R2 is not in the picture)
Before we do let’s see what the routing table look like on R4
Do the same step of on R6
Lets chevk ping command
Which we can – to prove this is going over the mpls and be label switched and not routed, lets 
do a trace
